um
anyhow i thought this could be an
informal session you could grab a
cocktail or a snack
um
but
the sessions 20 upgrades for 2022 20
things you can do
to almost guarantee you will grow faster
this year and what i what i wanted to
use was a bunch of surveys so a couple
months ago we invested a little more on
our linkedin page i know everyone knows
linkedin works for b b to b but we
didn't do much we started doing some
surveys asking some of this astro
classic questions and wanted to use
some of the answers from a thousand two
thousand three thousand
per survey on some questions that we've
talked about for years about how things
work in your business and how to level
them up so i want to use about 20 of
these surveys for a prop like
we may run out of time we may have extra
time you can interrupt a little bit but
i think some of them tie into some
classic saster themes a lot of them a
lot of the stuff you've heard today but
maybe we could dig in a little bit on
data
um
and this one and i know david kellogg
talked about i think bill bench talked
about it if you heard their sessions
but i like this data because we've
talked about this a lot in sasha there's
a classic saster post which i really
think if you haven't read i would one of
the top 10 i would read which is why the
best sales reps close 9x more than a
normal rep not a little bit
not 20 more 9x again and again and again
and again um i was just talking with the
top sales reach set one of the top sales
reps ever maybe the number one at
outreach ever he was 9x his first year
even our little saster team over here
that that sells sponsors we have one
person and it's a great sales team we
have one that has sold 23 million of
sponsorships already okay 9x and we
won't get into all the math today
but i did a survey and i asked we asked
only 427 for this but how much more does
your number one sales rep close than
your average sales rep
20 said 5x or more
4x or more and the majority 3x or more
so
what do you do with this data great the
sales magician the most important thing
if any of you are having any stress in
your model is one way or another move on
for the bottom top 10 percent of your
reps do it early you heard david kellogg
and bill bench talk about making these
decisions early but think for a moment
think how many leads what if you took
your 100 leads that you're sending to
your two or three or five worst reps and
gave them to your best reps or the
middle reps and they closed three times
more nine times more every single time i
see this apple in saskatchewan had it
happened to me back in the day as a seo
magic happens you just close 20 more
from the leads you already have if you
concentrate them in your best reps now
of course you can't give your number one
rep all the leads that doesn't scale it
doesn't work but again your bottom 10
percent are usually just flushing leads
down the drain so be kind be helpful but
literally move out your bottom 10
percent and your revenue will literally
go up in less than one sales cycle it's
just math um so this works for work for
me it works for all the companies i've
invested in or worked with and it
appears to work with 427 you as well
just get recycle the wrap the the leads
to your best reps
um
a second one i asked about what people
are seeing on turnover and we could
talk about the great resignation of what
you're seeing what you're feeling but
the best sales teams stay together and
the best vps of sales
not only are constantly recruiting the
best they used to join them but the best
vp of sales don't let anybody good go
and design sales comp plans so that
you'll never want to leave right and if
you if you haven't worked in a great
sales environment you're just
experiencing it today what you'll see is
literally with the best vps of sales
there's almost no turnover on their team
and their top reps make a lot of money
that becomes a virtuous cycle it is
risky as an ae to leave and go to
another startup if you're doing well if
you're making a lot of money at a sas
company just because another one just
raised around or looks hot what are the
odds that you're going to make top 10
salary if you just quit and go somewhere
else it's risky and if you love your
boss and you're making a lot of money
you're not going to leave so i asked
what percent of your sales team turns
over each year the median appears to be
about 20 25
um
that's crappy it's crappy and and the
reminder is and i think we've learned
this over the years old school sales is
some sort of bell-shaped distribution
and not was saying that we do want to
get rid of the bottom 10
we want everyone we want the bell curve
to keep moving and reps to get better
and better and you want the vast
majority of your sales team hitting
quota you want 80 90 hitting quota it
can be done we've talked you can check
on youtube and google sam blonde who's
now cro brex we've done this so many
times you want 80 hitting quota and not
having this turnover so honestly ask
yourself three things do your reps love
your vp of sales your good ones if not
that may be a flag you have a problem
the best reps should love them
does it reward excellence are your top
reps making a lot of money like
depending on where you are in the u.s
your best aes should be making 300 000
for smb half million for mid market and
a million dollars for enterprise if your
best if your best folks make three to
five times more in the mid than the mid
pack ones they should be making that
much money so
does your sales comp plan work and you
don't take away money from your best
reps
and strive for zero voluntary attrition
it truly is a flag
if any of your best sales reps leave for
any reason it's a flag find out why go
grab them in the parking lot if you have
the off if you have an office grab them
on zoom or grab whatever don't let them
go because again if they're making good
money and have a good boss why why would
they leave the only reason
an individual contributor sales rep
should leave your company is for a
promotion they can't get at your company
you can't promote everybody
not everyone can become a director of
sales or a vp of sales or promotion
typically
there's only enough slots to maybe
promote half of the folks that want a
management level role but it should be
the only excuse if someone else good is
leaving it's a flag it's a problem so
don't lose any that's that's that's one
of the best ways to keep growing
concentrate that knowledge because the
best reps just get better and better
around year two and even year three and
they train the rest of your team don't
let them go
um
point three this this one is
i love what again what david kellogg
talked about the the the dramatic
damage from a cost perspective a mishire
and vp of sales can do um i asked the
flip around question we should have
gotten more votes on this one but how
much of a revenue boost did you get from
your first great vp of sales um
um half got 20
and about half got 40 to 100 boost
and
the number maybe the number one
thing tactical thing you can do is
concentrate leads in in your better reps
but
the number two thing you can do to grow
fast this year is just upgrade your weak
vps dave made the point that you already
know who's not cutting it but things
should always approve in one sales cycle
another classic sastra post if you want
to go back and look on the site
is you know a great sales a great vp of
sale should make an impact in one sales
cycle or less and when i wrote this
years ago so many vps of sales i knew
got mad at me like how can you expect me
to improve sales in one cell i need two
quarters i need four quarters i need 12
quarters to turn the ship around read
the post you don't you don't because
what a great vp does is a couple of
things and not just in sales in
marketing in product in eng a great vp
of sales brings in a couple great people
a couple great engineers a couple great
developers a great marketer and they
move out anyone that's not great they do
it in fact their first week the good vps
especially vps of sales because vp of
sales is half your job as hiring they
immediately assess the team on the
ground they immediately bring in one or
two great people move out one or two
great people and you see that same math
with the great ae like they route the
leads to the best people internally and
they bring in a few ringers
and the best vp of sales
are better at closing than someone
mediocre so they come in and the deals
that are already happening the deals
that are already in the pipeline they
just close more of them than a week vp
of sales or no vp of sales so you should
always see some improvement you should
see more story points in your vp events
you should see more leads from marketing
you should see more revenue from sales
the nuance is don't expect magic not
every vp of sales can come in and double
sales in 30 days like i experienced
sometimes it's a smidge better sometimes
marketing gets a little bit better
engineering product gets released a
little bit faster it can't always happen
overnight but if you see no progress
you're almost always better off with
nobody and most folks know this you're
almost better off without a week with no
vp than even a mediocre vp
so fix this today and revenue usually
will go up
and again other folks have said this but
if we had to just
wrap this last one just remember time
never turns a mediocre vp into a good
one it just never does and especially
never listen to your vcs or investors
that tell you this
many of them don't know they haven't run
companies and they always want to give
especially that that strapping
like white male vp of sales from a hot
tech company that's 6-4 and has a suit
and a good accent they always want to
give him more time but you got to close
right so time never time never helps
um so upgrade your weak vps
um
a small one but to impact your team is
make sure you hire any great vp you do
not have to sequence it perfectly and
we've we've talked about this on saster
it's a classic post of
what order to sequence it in but the
real key to understand and this is not
intuitive until you're later is any
great vp is accretive any great vp and
i'll hit the math for a minute but i
asked folks 11 1101
which vp do you wish you'd hired earlier
well 38 said vp of sales which is what
everyone thinks but vp of marketing vp
of product eng maybe i guess i get the
nine percent we could talk about it but
they're all accretive and and we've
talked about this on saster but just a
tie to the poll a great vp of sales is
at least going to increase sales 20
in a sales cycle a great vp of marketing
is going to bring in more leads than
they cost bringing more pipeline you'll
immediately see a boost at least in in
somewhere in the pipe
a vp of product most folks here probably
have not hired a great vp of product
before i see too many people wait but
your product by five six million in
revenue sometimes earlier it gets
complicated you have a lot of workflows
you have a lot of use cases you have a
lot of customer demands and i see too
often the ceo or the ceo and the cto
hacking the road map it doesn't work
when you have a hundred a thousand ten
thousand customers you're making the
wrong bets you're making the wrong bets
overall and you're making the wrong bets
for your biggest customers and the ones
in the pipeline the vpa product will
figure out how to manage those those
bets those story points and optimize the
the chances big deals close and that big
customers are happy and that big
customers buy more from you so they're
all they're all the creative even a
million they are so the point is
as founders your job
is to spend at least 25 20 of your time
recruiting half if you can
but meet all the great vps and if you
think you need a vp of sales but you
find a great vp of demand jen just hire
her if you think you need a great vp of
product but you find an amazing vp event
that your cto loves just hire her
they're all accretive you hire an
amazing vp of engineering and let's say
you're doing 100k deals and you're able
to close two more amazing customers
because you hired a great vp of avenge i
mean
more than pays for herself in a quarter
a quarter or two so don't wait don't try
to perfectly sequence your vps if you
want to close more this year hire any
great one um they're all accretive
um
okay another one that
people give you crappy advice on
especially your vcs and investors
a vp especially vp of sales but any vp
you have to bring in good folks you have
to bring in good folks and when i'm
interviewing
any vp candidates engineering marketing
but especially sales there's a few trick
columbo questions i ask i never ask
tough questions i always ask simple
questions layups but i ask okay who are
you going to bring with you if you join
this startup um
bob diane great okay what are their
backgrounds are you sure they're gonna
come with them go talk to bob and diane
it's okay if you if she's gonna bring
bob and diane with her they've known
each other for years they're already
grooming them to come it's okay to go
talk to them if you hear a vp of sales
or really any vp candidates say i don't
know anyone but i'm going to hire a
bunch of recruiters like don't hire
that's not a vp it's not a vp and this
is a mistake again and again so i asked
1217 people how long do you give a vp to
bringing a few good hires most of you
failed this test the correct answer is
day zero
it's always day zero and uh two thirds
of you said a quarter or two it never
works vps don't have time
any vp role is 50 recruiting especially
engineering and sales and again i've got
to tell you
i've never seen a single vp of sales
succeed that didn't bring in one or two
good people with them immediately when
they joined never seen it not once um
could be a good individual contributor
could be a good place holder but
it's not the job
um
okay next one this is kind of a more
recent
issue that i've realized that's dawned
on me it's not brand new but this is one
of the best ways to level up right now
this year
is to make sure you focus as much on
logo retention as nrr right years ago
when sasser started disastrous 10
we were just learning about the power of
nrr we didn't even really know and now
if you look at all the companies that
have gone public and you can read it on
our five interesting learning series
everyone's got it datadog you know we
talked about it this morning 400 million
in revenue growing over 70 130 nr
all these nrr numbers are great
snowflakes like 170 percent but here's
what i've learned um
high interrupt companies are friggin
lazy especially their customer success
teams and i wrote a post just recently
about how customer success teams at
higher enter our companies are lazy and
all the cs people flame me on linkedin a
thousand people said i was wrong but i'm
right um i've recently i've recently
interviewed over 70 csics i usually
interview p 70. i
they're so lazy in these higher
intervals now when you interview someone
out of b to c or a high churn or smb
environment that's got 80 retention
85 percent they hustle okay they work
hard they're judged every hour every day
when you see that churn happening but
goodness gracious when you walk into
work and your companies buy 140 of your
api they're lazy lazy lazy lazy and i've
asked so many
um csms that are more mid-market or
enterprise how often do you do qbr's
right i don't know if it's in here like
well
just quarterly but how many do you i did
one last quarter oh they don't show up
they don't do anything that's lazy it's
lazy it's lazy it's lazy and okay so we
can talk about that point to learn how
do you cure a little bit of this
laziness in a high in our environment
you gotta track logo churn you gotta
track it relentlessly because if you
don't
and you lose and you lose a couple of
high profile customers and you lose
notion and charge b and asana who's here
but your inner are still high no one
gets bent out of shape oh my gosh we
lost we lost a sauna i mean who wants to
lose a sauna that's death but if your
other customers are growing enough no
one cares but if you say look we need 90
logo retention or 95
and you talk about that every day every
week and it's just as important in
revenue ops and cs as nr people's
behavior will change people will have to
be accountable for every logo they lost
and really every logo every customer you
lose in sas is sort of a failure someone
failed sales oversold it your product
let them down or see us let them down no
one no one buys sas products for fun
it's not fun to deploy test and roll out
a sass app in your company and every
single time they churn you have failed a
customer and you you're going to fail a
few times
but focus on logo retention as much as
nrr and you will you will watch magic
happen things will happen much better
don't let cs cruise because it's gotten
it gotten endemic
okay next point in terms of 20 ways to
do better in 2022 and this is some old
saster stuff on how to raise pricing
but i asked folks
how much have you raised price on your
product this year at all i was a little
surprised obviously we're in a weird
inflationary world things have changed
but 60 of you have raised prices this
year right and what i have found on the
first point with companies i worked with
and talked is there's a lot more
elasticity and pricing for most sas
products than i ever thought i sweated
this as a bullet as a founder and then i
sweated this since but folks are getting
better at this they're providing more
value in their products they're more
trusted vendors and listen if your
product's 20k a year what's the
difference between 20 and 25
nothing okay nothing it may look like it
on your website but if you're providing
if you're charging 20 i hope you're
inviting 100k or 200k of value it really
doesn't matter if you're providing a lot
of value if you increase your prices in
even 20
and it's great to tr not only will your
customer your new customers pay it which
we'll get to but if they don't it's
wonderful learning to kick the ass of
the rest of the team we really can't go
from 20 to 25 and we can't close
customers anymore i mean that's a flag
that you are not providing as much value
for your customers as possible so a lot
of things we can talk about we have an
old sastra post on on your next customer
double pricing i love doing this more in
the enterprise is double pricing and see
how it sticks see how it goes
um different point but raise your prices
but do it thoughtfully with adding value
folks will pay more for high value
products
but again the second point and i don't
have the data on the second other than
all of my experiences over the years
when if hopefully things aren't tough
for you as we talked about this morning
but if things are
harder if they're getting a little bit
harder to close if there's more drama a
lot of folks want to raise pricing on
your base it's a cheat it's actually a
completely weak sign when a vp of sales
is missing a quarter and he says well
you know what i'm not going to make it
but let's raise prices so that we can
make my plan it it's a cookie you raise
prices on your base once it works once
you can't raise it every quarter it's
almost worthless if you piss off your
customers it's not worth it and the
customers you have today whether even if
you're at 20 million in revenue they're
likely a very small percent of your
customers going forward so look if you
can raise prices on your base
strategically you have data it works
it's elegant or maybe better yet it's
for a new addition a new product so that
it's additive go do it but raising
prices on folks that bet their careers
on you i usually don't see that worth it
and it consumes a lot of internal oxygen
a lot of discussion and then the
cookie's gone and you can't raise prices
next quarter to miss the plan so maybe
even ideally only raise prices on
existing customers when you've blown out
the quarter then you take out the
pressure to kind of make up for it by
doing it and people come to that
conclusion
for the wrong reason so
but it's interesting that the elasticity
i've seen you know 60 of folks have said
we've able to raise prices significantly
and and implicitly it hasn't really hurt
our business
um
okay next one
and we talked about this a little bit
this morning
um if you if folks on your team are
whining about the markets and again sas
is growing faster than ever we talked
about this morning
asana is doubling at 400 million in
revenue snowflakes almost doubling at a
billion in revenue gitlab up seven
different like all the cloud leaders are
growing like crazy sales is accelerating
but i know a lot of you are gonna hear
complaints from the field from your
teams from your sales team
remember that some budgets are down but
more are up than down so
um i asked you know the 680 folks given
all the turmoil are what are you seeing
on budgets well 22 percent said they've
seen budgets reduced
but half said no changing more more not
statistically but more said budgets are
going up like budgets are going up so
focus on that even if some of your
customer segments are impacted focus
your energy on the segments that are
growing and like we talked about this
morning don't don't let too many excuses
in the team as many as many folks look
at the look at the folks here like let's
just pick the sponsors i bet our average
sponsor here is growing 100 or more okay
these are good companies if they're your
customers go get more go sell them more
they're going 100 worry less about the
ones that are struggling because cloud
is just it's just a rising tide and and
again don't take budgets or down as an
excuse the data and and the public
markets don't don't support it
um
maybe just this one quickly we hit it
earlier
but um i asked i'm a big fan of variable
comp for everybody but you got to get
the kpi right so i i just asked how much
of your vp of sales realized comp is
variable
um it was interesting to me that out of
over 2 000 votes only 13
said more than 50 percent although all
very few had almost no variable comp um
i did an old saster post that a lot of
folks have used for a 50 50 25 plan i
think it works well today if you can
pull it off which is half your head to
sales compass base half is tied to
hitting the plane for the year and then
25 for blowing out the plan i still like
50 50 still works
to work 10 years ago worked five years
ago it works this year but whatever you
do
now is the time we're in the middle of
the year coming to the middle of the
year revisit your variable comp plans
boy if you get them wrong
it it really incense behavior and only
one kpi matters do we have the right one
for cs do you want to incent logo
retention are you really in sending
qbr's are you really interested in
driving mps and nrr up um do you have
the right incentives for sales um i was
recently talking with an amazing sales
leader
but she was coming out of a really big
company she wanted 95 base five percent
variable like we'll see how that one
plays out i don't think it's going to
play out that well like pay more for
more performance and less for weak
performance but my real point is
sometimes we set up these variable
complaints we think we understand them
we don't revisit them revisit it this
summer revisit it now
tweak them so you can maximize the
outcome because people really almost
irrationally respond to incentives here
and they don't they don't do anything
else other than the number one or number
two kpi they have that they're getting
paid out on
um okay next one
if you read much disaster i've just
become religious on this as i've
realized
we talked about the lazy csms early that
don't do the qbrs and coast
man the last two years everyone lowered
the bar in hiring and i'm talking to so
many sales reps today that have no idea
how their product works they sell and no
one can demo it or understand it
everyone wants to bring in ses someone
else to demo the product
i i i almost want to blow my brains out
but so i asked i asked 11
1149 folks does your sales team really
understand the product it gets worse on
another slide um
only 46 said their sales teams as expert
as their customers just like think about
that for a moment and
listen to the gong and chorus calls and
zooms and others will get to it but
honestly move on from any sale until
your brand is so big your product sells
yourself move on from reps that can't
sell your product move on from folks
that that send embarrassing emails and
send dumb answers move on from them and
dave kellogg flipped it around this
morning he said you want a vp of sales
that will go into that meeting for you
and be an ambassador for your product
you need every rep to be an ambassador
for your product and so spend more time
here not only move out the bottom 10
percent of your sales team but either
train them better hire better people but
they need to be experts like we are all
smart the average the average
sas company is one of 200 b2b apps
deployed in their org 200 so if your
customers have 200 apps that probably
means they've evaluated 2 000
like they deserve an expert they are not
novices for sas they deserve
that their 10 questions answered very
thoughtfully they deserve a demo they
deserve whatever they get they've earned
it we're all experts and don't so this
is just this is just shocking
um
and just two more points on this and
we'll come back to it you've got to read
the emails you've got to listen to the
calls and so i asked how many of you
really read your sales reps emails and
calls and zooms it was a little bit
better twenty percent don't read any
emails or listen to any gongs or watch
any zooms only forty percent do it for
all reps and
look all i can tell the founders here
is
if you don't do this your sales team is
worse than you think unless they're
crushing it unless they're crushing it i
i i invested in a company that just
crossed 10 million in revenue almost
bootstrapped brought into vp of sales
and then everything just slowed down and
we don't that happens it's the company's
fault as much for hiring the person
but the vp of engineering had never been
in a sales call ever and he couldn't
stand it anymore and he went and
listened to the calls he's like this is
the worst these are the worst calls i've
ever heard he the vp of engineering said
i'll be the vp of sales
i couldn't believe it and he literally
was for about a month and then the ceo
took it over again but you got to do
this i know you're busy but someone on
the team has to be doing this and i will
tell you one thing if your vp of sales
isn't great
she or he won't be doing this well
they'll be making excuses for the team
if your vp of sales can't demo your
product if your vp of sales is not an
expert in your product there's no way
they're listening to this to the calls
and watching the zooms and making sure
the reps are good at it it's a
compounding effect and then everybody
gets just terrible terrible at the
product so jump in as founders and make
sure you're listening to a subset of
calls
watching a subset of zooms and if
they're not good change it change it
everyone i'd rather have an expert in my
product that's a decent closer than an
amazing closer that doesn't understand
their product they won't close anything
until your brand is just it's just mega
so so this one was pretty bad um and
hold on let me see if i can find the
other one i'll flip back
uh
okay sorry
me go back to this one and then maybe
we'll we'll just do a few more um
okay
another thing you can level up in 2022
is
just make outbound work do a good job i
everyone i would say five years ago
maybe half of sas companies did outbound
i would say today it's like about 80 to
90 as near as i can tell
outbound always works there's a classic
saster post called outbound always works
you can read it and walk through the
math
but
do fewer better meetings um train your
sdrs
force them to do get you 15 meetings per
month and force them to generate 2
million of quota this is kind of the
magic trifecta for for sdrs and then i
asked folks how many qualified meetings
do your seo set up per month and you can
see about half did 10 to 15 per month
and then 25 did this 15 to 20. the more
sdr leaders i've talked to in the last
year
the more the best sdr leaders aim for
this second target they're like we'd
like 10 to 15 qualified meetings per str
and the best ones can do 15 to 20 and
the best ones always generate about 2
million in pipe per year so
don't throw 20 terrible sdrs don't hire
some agency that doesn't know your
product get a couple of folks working at
the right targeted account nail this
down and get them more help and do fewer
better meetings
because it always works it always works
take a look at and and if you don't know
how to do it or it's not working a lot
of folks say outbound isn't working for
me like we tried it's not working well i
ask a simple question who's your biggest
customer well you know it's google for
100k okay
well who else like google could buy why
do they buy your product who else is
like google there's meta there's there's
snap there whatever are you talking to
the right people have you outbounded
them have you set up the right
conversation maybe i don't know it
doesn't work like outbound will always
work you can always send an email to the
same job function at meta as google and
say do you know google just bought this
for our marketing team it's their number
one favorite product of the year can i
just show it to you that best email will
get opened half the time and you will
get meetings if it's perfect if you sell
try to do targeted outbound to the same
buyer if you load up a bunch of stuff in
sales loft or outreach who i love you
know i was at early investment sales
after mixed bags and you ask people for
coffee it's not gonna work okay it's
just not gonna work but get them more
help and do it better it always works
this year level it up and try to set
these goals don't just set sdrs randomly
say we i want 10 to 15
qualified meetings per month that my a's
accept and say is qualified and i want
you to generate two million pipe a year
and then pay up again pay up pay up when
they do it
a related point i just had um
was i just asked now that everyone's
doing outbound what's your ratio of sdrs
to aes um
again i act actually this ties to the
prior point the most interesting one is
who has no sdrs only 14
of folks have have no sdrs at all so if
you're forcing your aes to do all the
work themselves we may be past the age
of the full stack ae like get them help
and then what's the ratio um it is
interesting that that sort of the
plurality is uh one sdr to two ae so one
person supporting two in a pod there's
different ways to do it you need to
experiment here but again everyone's
doing it and there's you know one to one
can work if you have a big enough deal
size one to four maybe if you're smaller
but if this if this meeting is one to
two make sure you have one good sdr
setting up appointments for every two s
aes and then sort of magic can happen
um
oh i think we sort of hit this one maybe
i'll skip this one for time unless
people want to do more you can let me
know but when did you hire a reverse vlp
of product um most folks waited it looks
like here till about four to five or six
million ar maybe i'll just simplify one
thing that i have on the right
there's a moment in time when everybody
realizes they need help a product
manager like a moment of time i need a
product person and 98 of you
96 percent of you i think make the same
mistake you hire a junior person okay
i'm gonna go higher i'm gonna go hire a
product manager that worked on one pixel
at twilio or worked on one little thing
at some great company they don't know
how to ship products into production a
manager is not enough
your product gets too complicated and
someone with one or two years of
experience at a brand can't do it but if
you hire a great vp of product at three
four five million and you have and you
have a sales driven motion
if you haven't magic happens a great vp
of product immediately
her or his first two weeks will go meet
with your top 20 customers magically
they'll understand how to improve the
experience your top 20 customers have
they will join your head of sales and
your customer success on all the top
accounts and provide leverage and that
leverage can be amazing hire a vp of
product that has supported customers
that has worked with a sales and
engineering team at your size and go
hire them and watch more deals close and
have higher nrr because they can provide
more value to these customers it's it's
magic to drive up the revenue all right
maybe just two more and then unless
anyone wants we'll we'll uh we'll we'll
drive home a point um one fun one
if you want to do better is this was an
early saster post too but be wary of
high win rates
be wary of high win weights high close
rates it's a bad sign if you win every
deal so i asked this was an early poll
so maybe we only got 214 votes but did
your win rates go up or down as you
scaled right um
41 said they went down
so just a reminder that if if you're
going up as you as marketing gets better
if you hired a real vp of marketing if
outbound is working
if your brand mini brand is growing you
should start getting into more deals you
start getting to deals where the
competition is not just the folks that
know this little tiny feature you do
well but you should be in more
conversation if you're more conversation
you should be losing more often you
should be in the deals if you're
competing with asana
and you get into more of those deals
asana is a pretty good product it's a
pretty good brand you should lose a lot
of those deals but even if you win 10 or
15 it can really move the needle so be
wary of high of high win rates and high
close rates if you want to grow faster
this year watch you should if your
team's good you should actually want to
see your win rate go down that's a sign
that marketing is working and alpiner's
working that you're getting into more
deals and it's a terrible sign if 80
percent of your deal is closed it means
you're doing no marketing it means
you're literally doing no marking or
outbound of 80 of your deals close
all right so maybe one more good one and
then we'll break i pick this one um
make support more important i want to do
all of them um but let me let me maybe
break on this one um because this is
this is another one everyone's getting
terrible advice to today and then we'll
break
people are being more capital efficient
now they're being more thoughtful even
though the markets are up ventures down
again come to a trillion great sessions
tomorrow on what's happening in venture
why the stock market compressions are
making fundraising hard but i see so
many folks freezing hiring in sales
okay it doesn't work it doesn't work and
let's just talk about why for a minute
but let's say you're at 4 million arar
today
and you want to get to 8 next year so
you want to double so typically at 4
million error you've been very efficient
maybe you got there with three reps and
let's say you can do 500k per rep that's
pretty good that's pretty efficient
yielded and you have three
well you want to go from four to eight
next year hang with me you have three
reps that do 500k that only gets you to
1.5 million to go from four to eight
million in one year
that's four million at 500k attainment
you need eight
reps hitting quota eight not not as many
as you think and to keep growing after
that you need more as you hit eight
because you want to go to 16. so you
probably need a dozen my real point is
as founders especially we usually get
this math off by at least 50 percent and
we end up with not enough scaled sales
reps and look there's nothing worse than
than flushing your leads down the toilet
with a rep that can't that can't close
but you will as you cross even a couple
million in revenue as you lead the
founder-led sales
you will need bodies that are good to
hit the plan you will need bodies now if
you bring on a
a sub-optimal vp of sales they will
throw a lot of bodies and revenue won't
go up a lot of us have experienced that
it's it's it that's destructive but do
the math look at where you'll be in 12
months
be thoughtful about attainment like you
will your efficiency will probably go
down and just figure out how many reps
you you're going to need and you can't
freeze hiring and hit the plan you can't
cut your way to growth it doesn't work
whatever your issues are cutting
sometimes you have to cut if you have
two months of burn but you can never cut
your way to growth and it especially
doesn't work in sales
it takes a little while to figure this
out in sas but there's no freaking
efficiencies in sales in sas like you
get engineering efficiencies everyone
can use your same code base but
it all it you barely get any
efficiencies in sales once you get a
billion an error and i don't think too
many people here at a billion error it
is linear it is linear but a great sales
reps are accretive if a great sales rep
closed 500k and she takes home 150
you've made 350. so dial that in and
make sure you don't under hire you will
never hit the plan so i got a few more
i'll post them but hopefully this was
helpful and thanks everybody we'll let's
go have some cocktails now we'll do more
tomorrow
[Music]
you